# BuffaloOpenData
In this read me I will take you through my code and hopefully explain the structure of it. This is an R script which takes in a dataset in csv format as givin via the Buffalo Open Data portal. The dataset I used is included in this repository in a zip file titled "data". This is read in and filtered based on making all the incident names lowercase as they werent all formatted properly. I then decided to make this a modular design in order to make the GUI selection easier. I use these variables called "offense" to make the selection of subsetting the data modular. All you have to do is uncomment the type of offense you want to display and comment out the other ones. This however requires editing of code so an abstaction will be needed for the GUI app version. This will be a selector and there will need to be some differentiating of the reference names at that point. The data is subsetted by the offense type and we proceed to generating the map. A prompt takes in the user input which should be an address(error handling will need to be implemented). We then use the google map api to grab this address and create a map object with the GGMap library. We then have two options of visualization, the "stat_bin2d" which is a square area type graph and a simple but clean, perhaps better map with simple points that fill in darker with higher density in an area like a toubled neighborhood. The next step is to embed this script into a website and allow clean simple user friendly abstraction where they simply type in an address and select a crime and a graph is generated. This would be truly helpful to the citizens of Buffalo as they could check what streets and areas are notorious for car robberies perhaps and can avoid parking there. This logic carries over to all types of crimes such as sexual assault etc. There would surely be a high demand for such an app :)
